---
title: "New Statistical Methods and Quality Control for Industry 4.0"
author: "Antonio Lepore"
date: 2024-10-25
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2024 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2024-10-25
#### Time: 15:30-16:30 (Montreal time)
#### Location: Online, retransmitted in Burnside 1104
#### [https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/81908885431](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/81908885431)
#### Meeting ID: 819 0888 5431
#### Passcode: None



## Abstract:

Statistical and machine learning techniques have emerged as powerful tools in Industry 4.0 to benefit from the increasing availability of sensors and data and enable informed decision-making and process optimization. This seminar will provide an overview of several industrial applications in high-dimensional settings developed by the Statistics for Engineering Research (SFERe) group (www.sfere.unina.it), affiliated with the Department of Industrial Engineering at the University of Naples FEDERICO II. In these applications, the definition and use of novel statistical methods have been a competitive advantage for naval, automotive, and rail companies. The open-source R software packages implementing these methods will also be mentioned to highlight their accessibility and potential applicability in different industrial contexts.

## Speaker

 Antonio Lepore is an Associate Professor of Statistics for Experimental and Technological Research at the Department of Industrial Engineering of the University of Naples Federico II.
His main research interests and publications in international journals concern the use of statistical methods for analyzing and monitoring high-dimensional data from multi-sensor acquisition systems.
He is a member of SIS (Italian Statistical Society) and a liaison between ENBIS (European Network for Business and Industrial Statistics) and ISBIS (International Society for Business and Industrial Statistics). He is also a member of the program committee and coordinator of the Quality Evaluation group for the PhD program in Industrial Engineering at the University of Naples Federico II.