---
title: "High Dimensional Logistic Regression Under Network Dependence"
author: "Somabha Mukherjee"
date: 2023-03-10
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2023 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2023-03-10
#### Time: 14:15-15:15 (Montreal time)

#### Hybrid: In person / Zoom
#### Location: Burnside Hall 1104

#### [https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/83436686293?pwd=b0RmWmlXRXE3OWR6NlNIcWF5d0dJQT09](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/83436686293?pwd=b0RmWmlXRXE3OWR6NlNIcWF5d0dJQT09)
#### Meeting ID: 834 3668 6293
#### Passcode: 12345



## Abstract:

The classical formulation of logistic regression relies on the independent sampling assumption, which is often violated when the outcomes interact through an underlying network structure, such as over a temporal/spatial domain or on a social network. This necessitates the development of models that can simultaneously handle both the network peer-effect (arising from neighborhood interactions) and the effect of (possibly) high-dimensional covariates. In this talk, I will describe a framework for incorporating such dependencies in a high-dimensional logistic regression model by introducing a quadratic interaction term, as in the Ising model, designed to capture the pairwise interactions from the underlying network. The resulting model can also be viewed as an Ising model, where the node-dependent external fields linearly encode the high-dimensional covariates. We use a penalized maximum pseudo-likelihood method for estimating the network peer-effect and the effect of the covariates (the regression coefficients), which, in addition to handling the high-dimensionality of the parameters, conveniently avoids the computational intractability of the maximum likelihood approach. Our results imply that even under network dependence it is possible to consistently estimate the model parameters at the same rate as in classical (independent) logistic regression, when the true parameter is sparse and the underlying network is not too dense. Towards the end, I will talk about the rates of consistency of our proposed estimator for various natural graph ensembles, such as bounded degree graphs, sparse Erdos-Renyi random graphs, and stochastic block models, which follow as a consequence of our general results. This is a joint work with Ziang Niu, Sagnik Halder, Bhaswar Bhattacharya and George
Michailidis.

## Speaker

Dr. Somabha Mukherjee is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Statistics and Data Science at National University of Singapore. Prior to joining this department, he completed PhD from the Department of Statistics, the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. His doctoral advisor was Bhaswar Bhattacharya.

He is interested in both Statistics and Probability. Within Statistics, his research interests include non-parametric statistics, inference in graphical models, high-dimensional CLT, shape-restricted regression and inference in Markov random fields. Within Probability, my research interests include discrete and combinatorial probability, large deviations, random graphs and statistical physics.  
