---
title: "Empirical Bayes Control of the False Discovery Exceedance"
author: "Pallavi Basu"
date: 2023-08-17
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2023 Summer"]
---

#### Date: 2023-08-17
#### Time: 15:30-16:30 (Montreal time)

#### Hybrid: In person / Zoom
#### Location: Burnside Hall 1104

#### [https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/83436686293?pwd=b0RmWmlXRXE3OWR6NlNIcWF5d0dJQT09](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/83436686293?pwd=b0RmWmlXRXE3OWR6NlNIcWF5d0dJQT09)
#### Meeting ID: 834 3668 6293
#### Passcode: 12345



## Abstract:

In sparse large-scale testing problems where the false discovery proportion (FDP) is highly
variable, the false discovery exceedance (FDX) provides a valuable alternative to the
widely used false discovery rate (FDR). We develop an empirical Bayes approach to
controlling the FDX. We show that for independent hypotheses from a two-group model
and dependent hypotheses from a Gaussian model fulfilling the exchangeability condition,
an oracle decision rule based on ranking and thresholding the local false discovery rate
(lfdr) is optimal in the sense that the power is maximized subject to FDX constraint. We
propose a data-driven FDX procedure that emulates the oracle via carefully designed
computational shortcuts. We investigate the empirical performance of the proposed
method using simulations and illustrate the merits of FDX control through an application
for identifying abnormal stock trading strategies.

## Speaker
 
Pallavi Basu is an Assistant Professor in the Operations Management area at Indian School of Business (ISB). Her research interests include-Applications of statistics in finance, marketing, and other disciplines; High-dimensional statistical inference and Large-scale multiple testing. She is a member of the American Statistical Association, Institute of Mathematical Statistics and International Indian Statistical Association. She has gained her Ph D (Business Administration and Statistics), from USC Marshall School of Business. She was a post-doctoral fellow at Tel Aviv University.




