---
title: "Learning from a Biased Sample"
author: "Lihua Lei"
date: 2023-02-03
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2023 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2023-02-03
#### Time: 15:30-16:30 (Montreal time)


#### [https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/83436686293?pwd=b0RmWmlXRXE3OWR6NlNIcWF5d0dJQT09](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/83436686293?pwd=b0RmWmlXRXE3OWR6NlNIcWF5d0dJQT09)
#### Meeting ID: 834 3668 6293
#### Passcode: 12345



## Abstract:

The empirical risk minimization approach to data-driven decision making assumes that we can learn a decision rule from training data drawn under the same conditions as the ones we want to deploy it under. However, in a number of settings, we may be concerned that our training sample is biased, and that some groups (characterized by either observable or unobservable attributes) may be under- or over-represented relative to the general population; and in this setting empirical risk minimization over the training set may fail to yield rules that perform well at deployment. Building on concepts from distributionally robust optimization and sensitivity analysis, we propose a method for learning a decision rule that minimizes the worst-case risk incurred under a family of test distributions whose conditional distributions of outcomes  given covariates  differ from the conditional training distribution by at most a constant factor, and whose covariate distributions are absolutely continuous with respect to the covariate distribution of the training data. We apply a result of Rockafellar and Uryasev to show that this problem is equivalent to an augmented convex risk minimization problem. We give statistical guarantees for learning a robust model using the method of sieves and propose a deep learning algorithm whose loss function captures our robustness target. We empirically validate our proposed method in simulations and a case study with the MIMIC-III dataset.

Paper link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.01754

## Speaker

Dr. Lihua Lei is an Assistant Professor of Economics at Stanford Graduate School of Business (GSB), an Assistant Professor of Statistics (by courtesy), and a Faculty Fellow at Institute for Economic Policy Research (SIEPR). He obtained his Ph.D. in Statistics at UC Berkeley, advised by Professors Peter Bickel and Michael Jordan and worked as a postdoctoral researcher in the Statistics Department at Stanford University, advised by Professor Emmanuel Candès.  

