---
title: "GARCH copulas, v-transforms and D-vines"
author: "Alexander McNeil"
date: 2025-05-23
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2025 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2025-05-23
#### Time: 15:30-16:30 (Montreal time)
#### Location: In person, Burnside 1104
#### [https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/89626299031](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/89626299031)
#### Meeting ID: 896 2629 9031
#### Passcode: None



## Abstract:

Stationary models from the GARCH class have proved to be extremely useful for forecasting volatility and measuring risk in financial time series. However, the nature of their implied copulas is opaque.

We analyse the serial dependence structure of first-order GARCH-type models in terms of the implied bivariate copulas that describe the dependence and partial dependence of pairs of variables at different lags. Our aim is to understand whether such dependence structures could be approximated with appropriately chosen bivariate copulas arranged in D-vines. 

We find that uniformity-preserving transformations, known as v-transforms, are implicitly embedded in the copulas of classical GARCH models and we propose that they could be used as explicit modelling elements to construct vine copulas for applications.

Our aim is to develop more flexible models that can improve upon the GARCH class in situations where the latter does not work well. Our results suggest that D-vine models with appropriately chosen pair copulas can rival and often surpass the performance of GARCH processes for many volatile financial return series.

## Speaker

Alexander McNeil has been Professor of Actuarial Science at the University of York since September 2016. Educated at Imperial College London and Cambridge University, he was formerly Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics at ETH Zurich and Maxwell Professor of Mathematics in the Department of Actuarial Mathematics and Statistics at Heriot-Watt University. He founded and led the Scottish Financial Risk Academy (SFRA) between 2010 and 2016. 

His research interests lie in the development of quantitative methodology for financial risk management and include models for market, credit and insurance risks, financial time series analysis, models for extreme risks and correlated risks and enterprise-wide models for solvency and capital adequacy. He has published papers in leading actuarial, statistics, econometrics and financial mathematics journals and is a regular speaker at international risk management conferences.

He is joint author, together with Rüdiger Frey and Paul Embrechts, of the book "Quantitative Risk Management: Concepts, Techniques and Tools", published by Princeton University Press (2005/2015). He is also an Honorary Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and a Corresponding Member of the Swiss Association of Actuaries