---
title: "How can mathematics contribute to AI?"
author: "Johannes Lederer"
date: 2025-02-28
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2025 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2025-02-28
#### Time: 15:30-16:30 (Montreal time)
#### Location: Online, retransmitted in Burnside 1104
#### [https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/89838224036](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/89838224036)
#### Meeting ID: 898 3822 4036
#### Passcode: None



## Abstract:

Artificial intelligence is arguably the hottest topic in science. Computer science and engineering currently set the agenda in this field, sidelining mathematics to a large extent. This talk, however, will highlight that mathematics has a lot to offer. We will introduce mathematical guarantees that provide deep insights into the inner workings of AI, and we will show how statistical principles can make AI more efficient. More generally, we will discuss the role of mathematics, especially statistics, in AI and data science.

## Speaker
Johannes is the chair of Mathematics for Data-Driven Methods at University of Hamburg. His research journey includes ETH Zurich, UC Berkeley, Cornell University, and University of Washington. Moreover, Johannes was Visiting Professor at UC Louvain, University of Hong Kong, and University Gustave Eiffel. He is an associate editor of the Electronic Journal of Statistics, Sankhya A, and the Canadian Journal of Statistics. Johannes is a prominent spokesperson of data science and AI in Germany: in addition to his podcast and his presence in social and classical media, he is a founding member of Hamburg Virtual Initiative for Science & Technology in AI, a member of Kiez of Computing and Data Science, and the outreach delegate for mathematics at University of Hamburg. He also organizes workshops and is a keynote speaker on the topic.