---
title: "Regression Models for Spatial Images"
author: "Murray Clayton"
date: 2019-09-27
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2019 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2019-09-27
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: McIntyre Medical Building, Room 521

## Abstract:

This work is motivated by a problem in describing forest nitrogen
cycling, and a consequent goal of constructing regression models for
spatial images. Specifically, I present a functional concurrent linear
model (FLCM) with varying coefficients for two-dimensional spatial
images. To address overparameterization issues, the parameter surfaces
in this model are transformed into the wavelet domain and then sparse
representations are found using two different methods: LASSO and
Bayesian variable selection. I will briefly discuss extensions to
address missing data problems for colocated spatial images and the
modeling of tree species in landscape ecology. In addition I will
discuss the use of the sextant in marine navigation.

## Speaker

Dr. Clayton is a Professor Emeritus in the Departments of Plant
Pathology and Statistics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. His
research interests include the development of theoretical statistics
as well as the development of statistical tools to address complex
problems in the agricultural, environmental and biological
sciences. For example, he has focused on the detection and description
of patterns of plant and human diseases across large geographical
regions. He has applied Bayesian and non-Bayesian methods, coupled
with Markov Chain Monte Carlo techniques, to address spatial
clustering problems in epidemiology such as identifying locations
where the rates of cancer might be enhanced. He has also worked
on association studies of variables measured across regions in which
there may be spatial correlation. He has collaborated with many
scientists on a diverse array of problems, including modeling bee
movements to better predict gene flow from transgenic to nontransgenic
crops as well as designing clinical trials to compare diets for
persons with certain metabolic disorders, to name a few.