---
title: "Formulation and solution of stochastic inverse problems for
science and engineering models"
author: "Don Estep"
date: 2019-11-22
categories: ["CRM-Colloquium"]
tags: ["2019 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2019-11-22
#### Time: 16:00-17:00
#### Location: Pavillon Kennedy, PK-5115, UQAM

## Abstract:

The stochastic inverse problem of determining probability
structures on input parameters for a physics model corresponding to a
given probability structure on the output of the model forms the core of
scientific inference and engineering design. We describe a formulation
and solution method for stochastic inverse problems that is based on
functional analysis, differential geometry, and probability/measure
theory. This approach yields a computationally tractable problem while
avoiding alterations of the model like regularization and ad hoc
assumptions about the probability structures. We present several
examples, including a high-dimensional application to determination of
parameter fields in storm surge models. We also describe work aimed at
defining a notion of condition for stochastic inverse problems and
tackling the related problem of designing sets of optimal observable
quantities.

## Speaker

Don Estep is the Director of CANSSI and a professor in the Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science at Simon Fraser University. Previously, he was a University Distinguished Professor, University Interdisciplinary Research Scholar, and Chair of the Department of Statistics at Colorado State University. Before that, he was a professor in the School of Mathematics at Georgia Tech for 13 years. He has also spent significant amounts of time at Chalmers University of Technology in Göteborg, Sweden and Caltech.