---
title: "Linear Regression and its Inference on Noisy Network-linked Data"
author: "Tianxi Li"
date: 2020-10-23
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2020 fall"]
---

#### Date: 2020-10-23
#### Time: 15:30-16:30

#### [Zoom Link](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/92453904989?pwd=ZDR6RUMxTzNYK0ZiME9ObWtoMGJqdz09)
#### Meeting ID: 924 5390 4989
#### Passcode: 690084


## Abstract:


Linear regression on a set of observations linked by a network has been an essential tool in modeling the relationship between response and covariates with additional network data. Despite its wide range of applications in many areas, such as social sciences and health-related research, the problem has not been well-studied in statistics so far. Previous methods either lack of inference tools or rely on restrictive assumptions on social effects, and usually treat the network structure as precisely observed, which is too good to be true in many problems. We propose a linear regression model with nonparametric social effects. Our model does not assume the relational data or network structure to be accurately observed; thus, our method can be provably robust to a certain level of perturbation of the network structure. We establish a full set of computationally efficient asymptotic inference tools under a general requirement of the perturbation and then study the robustness of our method in the specific setting when the perturbation is from random network models. We discover a phase-transition phenomenon of inference validity concerning the network density when no prior knowledge about the network model is available, while also show the significant improvement achieved by knowing the network model. A by-product of our analysis is a rate-optimal concentration bound about subspace projection that may be of independent interest. We conduct extensive simulation studies to verify our theoretical observations and demonstrate the advantage of our method compared to a few benchmarks under different data-generating models. The method is then applied to adolescent network data to study the gender and racial differences in social activities.


## Speaker

Tianxi Li is an assistant professor in the Department of Statistics at the University of Virginia. His research is mainly about statistical network analysis and statistical learning.
He obtained his PhD in statistics from the University of Michigan in 2018.
