---
title: "Automated Inference on Sharp Bounds"
author: "Vira Semenova"
date: 2022-11-11
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2022 fall"]
---

#### Date: 2022-11-11
#### Time: 15:30-16:30 (Montreal time)

#### [https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/83436686293?pwd=b0RmWmlXRXE3OWR6NlNIcWF5d0dJQT09](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/83436686293?pwd=b0RmWmlXRXE3OWR6NlNIcWF5d0dJQT09)
#### Meeting ID: 834 3668 6293
#### Passcode: 12345



## Abstract:

Many causal parameters involving the joint distribution of potential outcomes in treated and control states cannot be point-identified, but only be bounded from above and below. The bounds can be further tightened by conditioning on pre-treatment covariates, and the sharp version of the bounds corresponds to using a full covariate vector. This paper gives a method for estimation and inference on sharp bounds determined by a linear system of under-identified equalities (e.g., as in Heckman et al (ReSTUD, 1997)).  In the sharp bounds’ case, the RHS of this system involves a nuisance function of (many) covariates (e.g., the conditional probability of employment in treated or control state). Combining Neyman-orthogonality and sample splitting, I provide an asymptotically Gaussian estimator of sharp bound that does not require solving the linear system in closed form. I demonstrate the method in an empirical application to Connecticut’s Jobs First welfare reform experiment.



## Speaker

Vira Semenova is an assistant professor at UC Berkeley's Department of Economics. Her research interests are Econometrics and Machine Learning. https://sites.google.com/view/semenovavira

McGill Statistics Seminar schedule:
<https://mcgillstat.github.io/>
