---
title: "Joint integrative analysis of multiple data sources with correlated vector outcomes"
author: "Emily Hector"
date: 2021-02-19
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2021 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2021-02-19
#### Time: 15:30-16:30 (Montreal time)

#### [Zoom Link](https://mcgill.zoom.us/j/84308655572?pwd=OUlCN2FUckFmeTRRSGNjMzVzUzkrZz09)
#### Meeting ID: 843 0865 5572
#### Passcode: 690084



## Abstract:

We consider the joint estimation of regression parameters from
multiple potentially heterogeneous data sources with correlated vector
outcomes. The primary goal of this joint integrative analysis is to
estimate covariate effects on all vector outcomes through a marginal
regression model in a statistically and computationally efficient way.
We present a general class of distributed estimators that can be
implemented in a parallelized computational scheme. Modelling,
computational and theoretical challenges are overcome by first fitting a
local model within each data source and then combining local results
while accounting for correlation between data sources. This approach to
distributed estimation and inference is formulated using Hansen’s
generalized method of moments but implemented via an asymptotically
equivalent and communication-efficient meta-estimator. We show both
theoretically and numerically that the proposed method yields efficiency
improvements and is computationally fast. We illustrate the proposed
methodology with the joint integrative analysis of metabolic pathways in
a large multi-cohort study.


## Speaker

Dr. Emily Hector is an Assistant Professor of Statistics at North Carolina State University. She obtained her PhD in Biostatistics at the University of Michigan under the supervision of Peter X.-K. Song.

Her current methodological interests are data integration, especially of correlated, heterogeneous, high-dimensional data, such as spatial data, estimating equations and the Generalized Method of Moments, methods that leverage recent computing and algorithmic developments, with a focus on divide-and-conquer, distributed estimation and inference, and parallel computing. Her current applications interests are Metabolomics, Neuroimaging, Wearable devices. https://www.emilyhector.com/