---
title: "Hierarchical Bayesian Modelling for Wireless Cellular Networks"
author: "Deniz Ustebay"
date: 2019-03-15
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2019 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2019-03-15
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

With the recent advances in wireless technologies, base stations are becoming more sophisticated. The network operators are also able to collect more data to improve network performance and user experience. In this paper we concentrate on modeling performance of wireless cells using hierarchical Bayesian modeling framework. This framework provides a principled way to navigate the space between the option of creating one model to represent all cells in a network and the option of creating separate models at each cell. The former option ignores the variations between cells (complete pooling) whereas the latter is overly noisy and ignores the common patterns in cells (no pooling). The hierarchical Bayesian model strikes a trade-off between these two extreme cases and enables us to do partial pooling of the data from all cells. This is done by estimating a parametric population distribution and assuming that each cell is a sample from this distribution. Because this model is fully Bayesian, it provides uncertainty intervals around each estimated parameter which can be used by network operators making network management decisions. We examine the performance of this method on a synthetic dataset and a real dataset collected from a cellular network.

## Speaker

Deniz Ustebay is a Machine Learning Research Scientist from Huawei Noah's Ark Lab, Montreal Research Centre.