---
title: "Introduction to Statistical Network Analysis"
author: "Nema Dean"
date: 2019-03-29
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2019 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2019-03-29
#### Time: 13:00-16:30
#### Location: McIntyre -- Room 521

## Abstract:

Classical statistics often makes assumptions about conditional independence in
order to fit models but in the modern world connectivity is key. Nowadays we need
to account for many dependencies and sometimes the associations and
dependencies themselves are the key items of interest e.g. how do we predict
conflict between countries, how can we use friendships between school children to
choose the best groups for study tips/help, how does the pattern of needle-sharing
among partners correlate to HIV transmission and where interventions can best be
made. Basically any type of study where we are interested in connections or
associations between pairs of actors, be they people, companies, countries or
anything else, we are looking at a network analysis. The methods falling under this
area are collectively known as "Statistical Network Analysis" or sometimes "Social
Network Analysis" (which can be a bit misleading as we are not only talking about
Facebook and the like). This workshop will give a general introduction to networks,
their visualisation, summary measures and statistical models that can be used to
analyse them. The practical component will be in R and attendees will get the
most benefit if they are able to bring a laptop along to work through examples.

## Speaker

Nema Dean is a Senior Lecturer of Statistics in the School of Mathematicss and Statistics at the University of Glasgow. Her research interests are in developing new clustering and classification methods. Past work has involved research on finite mixture model based methods and variations that incorporate variable selection and semi-supervised updating. Currently she is working on creating hybrid clustering methods using both parametric and classical algorithmic approaches. She have also developed new mixture model clustering methods for discrete and space-restricted data. 