---
title: "Patient-Specific Finite Element Analysis of Human Heart: Mathematical and Statistical Opportunities and Challenges"
author: "Alireza Heidari"
date: 2019-02-08
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2019 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2019-02-08
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1104

## Abstract:

Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are the leading cause of death globally and ranks second in
Canada, costing the Canadian economy over $20 billion every year. Despite the recent progress in CVD through prevention, lifestyle changes, and the use of biomedical treatments to improve survival rates and quality of life, there has been a lack in the integration of computer-aided engineering (CAE) in this field. Clinically, proposing cut-off values while taking into consideration patient-specific risk is of paramount importance for increased rate ofsurvival and improved quality of life. Computational modeling has proved to be used in determining parameters that cannot be assessed experimentally. The latest developments in computational modelling of human heart are presented and the constitutive equations, the key ingredient of these in-silico modellings of human heart, are discussed. Finite Element analysis of cardiac diseases provide a framework to generate synthetic data for developing statistical models when collecting the real data require invasive procedure. The idea of virtual personalized cardiology will be discussed. 

## Speaker

Alireza Heidari is currently a Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at McGill University, working with Professor Masoud Asgharian. 